Welcome back everyone.
And this series of lectures we're going to be talking about flask oath basically open authorization
access with flask to put this into context.
You may not always want to be the responsibility of maintaining user profiles authorisation and registration.
Luckily there are already many popular services that can be used as potential logons such as Facebook
or Google.
If you've ever gone to a Web site and have been able to access the Web site by logging in through some
other service they are using both.
So as I mentioned popular services will use Facebook Google Twitter etc. as logging portals we can use
the flask the library to easily add an oath open authorization Bacchantes to our application to keep
this in context o off itself is an open standard authorization protocol or framework that describes
how unrelated servers and services can safely allow authenticated access to their assets without actually
sharing the initial related single log and credential.
So if we just use basic auth such as Google log in we're not going to get full access to the person's
Google account.
Instead we'll at Google handle all that on their back end and just use their Google email or Google
sign on to give access to our own Web site we're going to be working on top of an abstraction with flask
dance and basically the way this works is that there's oh Auth. now on Version 2.0 which is that open
authorisations standard protocol.
Then on top of that there was a library developed called the flask dash off which helped connect flask
applications to this oh off 2.0 framework.
Then on top of that there was a further abstraction called the flask dance and Flast dance is the easiest
way to use open authorization with your flask applications.
So I'll be using the flask dance library and occasional have it.
You can always install Flast dance.
We'll be looking at the documentation.
Just a second.
But I want to make it clear that flask dance itself is not this open authorization framework.
Instead it say layers of abstraction on top of this which allows us to easily use many services through
kind of the same syntax protocol OK.
So as I just mentioned the Flashdance library easily integrates a large variety of off options.
And more importantly has detailed QuickStart guides allowing you to easily implement any of these.
Olof Bacchantes into your web application let's go ahead and head to the documentation to follow along
with the guide for the Google QuickStart.
Go to flask dasht dance.
Read the docs.
I know so we can explore documentation just a little bit before we actually head on to coding this out
in the next lecture.
I'm going to jump to this.
You are all in my browser now.
All right.
Here I am at flask dance.
And the reason is called Dance because it kind of does a dance with the open authorization to kind of
connect everything together.
What's really important here are kind of two parts installation and quick starts.
So installation is quite simple.
It should already be in the requirements text but in case you don't have it yet you can do Pipp install
Flast dance.
And if you intend to use the sequel alchemy a back end as a little extra you can say Flast that's sequel
alchemy.
We'll talk about this later on but right now all you need to do is say Pipp style flask dance at your
command line.
Now we go back to the documentation overview lodestar is quick starts here.
And this basically shows you the QuickStart for all the open authorization portals that we can use a
flask dance.
There are the major ones like Google Twitter but there's also other ones like Dropbox slack and so on.
And you can see here more details on the providers.
Keep in mind these API may change often so you'll always want to reference documentation.
And in case you have any issues maybe reference the hub issues page for Flast dance we're going to start
off by playing around Google QuickStart.
So all I have to do is if you're ever interested in using one of these just click on the QuickStart
such as Google search and it will tell you how to set up the application basically how to set up your
client API keys so that Google knows you're giving permission to your flask application.
So in order to do that we'll have to have a Google account.
So basically you follow the instructions here that set up the client key the secret key and then the
authorized redirect you are.
Once you've done that you can essentially just copy and paste this code right here in order to have
the very basic setup.
Here we can see that we created a flask application you set up a blueprint.
This one is the Google blueprint and you provide a client id and a client secret code which describes
how to set up here and then you register that blueprint.
And here they show you a very basic example that if you're not authorized you redirect for the Google
logon.
If you are authorized However they go ahead and grab your user information and then they'll just return
back.
In this case you return back your e-mail.
So let's go in and check out one other examples we can really get an understanding of the QuickStart
because it's basically what you do when you come to the Flast dance documentation.
So let's imagine I wanted to use slack as my logon.
So I click on slacke QuickStart.
They'll say set up the application see basically visit this Web site register an application was slack
and then set the read there.
You are I to this localhost log slack authorize the take now of the client id and the client secret.
And then it's essentially the same syntax you just flipping out of cup or switching out a couple of
things.
They say make slack blueprint that you're importing here from stance and you can see here that basically
the response what you're grabbing is slightly different but the actual flow is very similar.
You set up your blueprint and then you're grabbing information and redirect him to slack log in in case
you're not logged in yet.
OK.
So that being said let's go ahead and work off of the quick sort example we'll be using the Google example.
And we're going to add in some templates so it's a little more complex than what you see here the QuickStart
but I'm going to follow along very closely to that flow.
All right we'll see you in the next lecture.